Monopoly Instructions

Object
The object of Monopoly is to become the wealthiest player by buying, selling, trading, and collecting 
rent on properties. In this version, a number of rounds is set at the beginning of the game, and the 
player who is the richest after the set number of rounds is declared the winner. 

Start
To start the game, each player enters their name and is assigned a random token. Each player starts out 
with $1,500. Each player token starts on the “Go” tile. 

Turns
On your turn, click the “Roll Dice” button. Your token will automatically move the correct number of 
spaces (1-12). 
-If you land on an unowned property, crosswalk, or utility, you have the option to buy it. 
-If you land on a property, a crosswalk, or utility that is already owned, you must pay rent to its owner. 
-If you land on a “Chance” or “Charger Chest” tile, a card will be drawn which gives an event (gain or lose 
money, or move on the board). 
-If you land on “Free Parking”, you don’t have to pay rent or draw a card. 
-If you land on “Jail”, nothing happens. You are just passing through. 
-If you land on “Go to Jail”, your player is now incarcerated (see Jail section of instructions).

Buying, Selling, and Trading Properties
There are two ways to buy a property, crosswalk, or utility: (1) land on the tile, or (2) buy or trade it from 
another player. 
If you own all the tiles of one color, this is a monopoly. Rent is more expensive on properties where the 
owner has a monopoly. 
On your turn, you have the option of selling or trading properties. The other player must agree to your 
proposed sale or trade. If they do not, the sale or trade doesn’t happen. 

Mortgaging Properties
Players have the option to mortgage their properties on their turn. If you mortgage a property, you 
receive a certain amount of money. 
Mortgaged properties cannot be sold or traded, and rent is not collected when a player lands on it. 

Jail
If you find yourself incarcerated, there are three ways to get out of jail: (1) Use a “Get Out of Jail Free” 
card, (2) Roll a 12 on your turn, or (3) Pay $50. If you don’t have a “Get Out of Jail Free” card and you 
don’t roll a 12, you must pay the $50 on your third turn in jail. 

Winning and Losing
If a player runs out of money and is unable to mortgage any properties, they must declare bankruptcy. 
Bankrupt players are eliminated from the game. 
At the end of the predetermined number of rounds, the player with the most assets (money and 
properties) wins the game.

